# SAFETY & EQUIPMENT

## Personal Responsibility

Each competitor has a personal responsibility for his own safety and
those of others. He should only perform maneuvers that he has practiced
and that he can control fully.

## Equipment

All equipment, including glider, harness and rescue parachutes must be
in perfect condition. Pilots will not be able to compete with damaged or
broken lines, damaged fabric, coverings, stitching or reinforcements.

In case of damage to the competing glider that had been presented to the
Competition Organizer during the period of registration, the pilot shall
inform the Chief Judge and get his approval before using a replacement
glider. If the damage occurs during a run and forces to stop it, a
re-run can be granted, but only if this does not cause the competition
and/or the prize giving ceremony to be delayed.

### Glider

All competing gliders must be certified according to EN 926-1 or LTF
91-09, for shock and load tests.

All lines must be fixed on the maillon with rubbers/plug to prevent
moving. Knots not allowed, loops must be clean.

### Harness

The harness must be certified according to EN 1651 or LTF.

The harness must be connected to the glider with carabiners or quick out
carabiners with 16kN minimum breaking load.

### Reserve Parachutes

Two rescue parachutes are compulsory: 2 classic or 1 classic and 1
Rogallo or BASE system.

For D-bag drop competitions, at least one rescue parachute must be a
Rogallo or BASE system. An organizer may request an exemption from this
requirement when bidding.

They must be certified according to EN 12491 (except for BASE system).

Both reserve parachutes must be dry and recently repacked. After a water
landing, they must be dried or replaced by dry material.

Rescue parachutes must be connected to the harness with maillons rapides
(both end fixed with rubbers to prevent moving) or soft links with 16kN
minimum breaking load. Connection with a loop can be exceptionally
accepted only when securely fixed with tape.

### Helmets

All pilots must wear a helmet certified according to either EN 966
(HPG), ASTM 2040 (Snow sports) or SNELL rs98 (Snow sports).

### Ballast

No ballast is allowed.

### Emergency lines cut away

Emergency lines cut away compulsory for D-Bag drop competitions.

## Equipment Checks

The Safety Director and/or a Senior Judge will perform an equipment
check during the pilot registration. Further checks may be made during
the event. Any equipment change during the event has to be notified to
the Meet Director. In case of non-compliance with the above regulations,
the Meet Director may suspend or exclude the pilot from the competition.
