---
title: Runs
section: 4
year: 2021
---

## Official Practice Period

As per Section 7 Common Chapter 2. All aspects of the organization are
in place except that there is no judging or scoring.

Timings of the practice runs are stated in the Local Regulations.

## Cuts

Cuts are allowed after a minimum of 2 valid runs.

Cuts policy is decided by the Meet Director in agreement with the Chief
Judge.

Cuts policy will be presented and discussed during the general briefing.

Cuts policy may evolve during the event depending on weather or other
variable elements. In this case, it is presented during the daily
briefing.

A pilot which has been cut must remain available until the end of the
championship for show flights, otherwise he may be disqualified from the
competitions.

## Programs

Programs may be free, imposed or restricted.

In an imposed or restricted program, the Meet Director and/or the Chief
Judge are entitled to specify technical limitations.

## Pre-Flyers

Pre-flyers may be used at the discretion of the Meet Director.

## Start Order

The starting order of the first run is set by a random draw or the
reverse order of the last updated WPRS. For subsequent runs,
pilots/pairs will start in the reverse order of the last updated
competition standing.

In case a pilot notices a technical problem to his equipment before
taking off, the start marshal or drop master must be informed and a
delay might be granted.

## Announcement of Program Start

Before starting the program, every pilot/pair has to make one "big ear"
to notify to the judges the start of the run.

If, before starting the first maneuver, he estimates the conditions
unsafe or the altitude too low to complete the run, the judges are
notified by making 2 "big ears". Then the pilot has to fly down
immediately to a safe landing without making any aerobatic maneuver.

The pilot/pair will be allowed a re-flight, except when judges estimate
that the pilot/pair showed unsportsmanlike behavior: in this case,
warning(s) might be issued. Nevertheless, it is always the pilot's
responsibility when to start his routine.

## Flight Box

Aerobatic maneuvers are only allowed in the flight box.

The characteristics of the flight box are explained during the general
briefing, and when necessary, updated at the daily briefing. A detailed
image clearly showing no-fly zones and the general area of the flight
box will be permanently displayed on the official information board.

At take-off, information on the wind strength along the run and at
landing must be provided and constantly updated.

The Meet Director, in agreement with the Safety Director and Chief
Judge, define the maximum strength of wind acceptable. This is discussed
at the general briefing.

It is strictly forbidden to fly over the public at any height (immediate
elimination from the competition), even when the flight box technically
extends over that area (no fly zone).

## Emergency Stop Signal

In case of emergency, the flight box can be closed.

A sound signal (loud enough to be heard by pilots) and/or a visual
signal (cross and additionally a smoke bomb can be used) over the raft
to announce that all aerobatics maneuvers and all water landings must
immediately stop. Pilots in the air must fly down and dry land safely.

## Re-flight

The Meet Director or the Chief Judge may allow a re-flight if a
pilot/pair has not been given the opportunity to make a scored run. In
case of a re-flight the pilot/pair shall repeat the same maneuvers that
had been flown prior to the moment the run was interrupted. When a
pilot/pair is disturbed by any external factor during the landing
(safety boat, unauthorized craft, swimmers etc.) only the landing will
be repeated and scored, and will be preceded by the last maneuver flown
during the interrupted run.

When, for any reason (weather, lack of time...), a re-flight cannot be
granted during the final run of a competition, for this run the
concerned pilots/pairs will be awarded the same score achieved by the
pilot/pair ranked, in that same final run, at the position corresponding
to the competition standings after the last completed run, provided that
not more than 3 pilots/pairs are affected, and that none of them was
ranked in the top 5 of the competition standings after the last
validated run.

Otherwise, the final run is cancelled.

Example. After run 3, a pilot is 7th in the competition standings. He
cannot complete the final run due to a thunderstorm. For run 4, he will
be awarded the same points obtained by the pilot ranked 7th in run 4.

## Validation of Run

A run is valid if all competitors have been given the opportunity to
make a scored flight.

In case of difficulties (meteorological conditions, logistics etc.), the
Meet Director may decide to cancel or stop a run after consultation with
the Safety Director, Chief Judge and Pilots\' Committee.

If a run cannot be completed one day, it will be continued on the next
scheduled day, provided that similar meteorological conditions prevail.

If the final run of a competition cannot be completed before the time
limit agreed with the organizer, and the exception stated under [Re-flight](##)
cannot be applied, the final run is cancelled and all scores obtained
before the interruption are disregarded.

## Communication

Radios and / or mobile phones can be used for communication, including
between pilots of the same pair. The start of the run must be
communicated by operating staff to the judges who will acknowledge
confirmation.
