---
title: Scoring
section: 6
year: 2021
---

## Competition Validity

A minimum of 2 runs is required to validate the Championships in each category (Solo and Synchro).

A maximum of 7 rounds may be flown in each category.

## Champions

### Solo

The overall score of each pilot is calculated by adding up all his task scores. The winner has the highest scores. Pilots with the same score are ranked in the same position.

### Synchro

Pairs of pilots can be of the same or different nationalities.

Pairs of pilots of different nationalities fly under their respective national flags and anthems.

The overall score of each pair is calculated by adding up all their task scores. The winning pair has the highest score. Pairs with the same score are ranked in the same position.

### Team

The number of pilots constituting a national team (X) and the number of pilot scores used to calculate the team score (Y) will be stated in the Local Regulations.

There is no team competition in Synchro.

The run score of a nation is calculated by adding up the highest Y scores of that nation's team pilots (X) for that run. The overall team score is the sum of the run scores. The winning nation has the highest score. Nations with the same score are ranked in the same position.

#### Non Team Pilots

The number of pilots entered by a NAC might be higher than the number of pilots constituting a national team. Pilots that are not eligible to score for the national team are eligible to compete for the individual championships.

### Tied Scores

If, at the end of the competition there is a tie for any of the first three places, the pilot or pair with the highest run score will be declared the higher placed pilot or pair. If both have the same highest score, the second highest scores will be considered.

## Scoring

A scoring system that has been approved by CIVL (currently Acropyx) will be used for competition scoring.

A scoring system shall be tested at a major competition before it is used in a 1st Category event.

Only maneuvers defined in Chapter 5 are scored. Definitions include description, minimum criteria, technical evaluation criteria, connections, technical scoring coefficient and choreography bonus.

There is no limitation in number and type of maneuvers unless specified by the Meet Director and/or the Chief Judge. Any limitation must be clearly notified to all pilots prior to the start of the run.

The judging panel consists of at least 3 CIVL qualified judges. No more than 2 judges can be of the same nationality.

### Solo

Each judge awards 3 marks between 1 and 10: technical expression during the program, general choreography, landing.

Marks are from 1 to 10, with half points.

The Judges' mark is composed of the average of the Judges' scores for technical expression (adjusted, see [Technical](##) below) + average score for choreography (including choreography twisted, reversed and flipped bonus marks) + average score for landing.

The final mark is generated by the scoring software such that the technical expression component represents 40% of the final mark, choreography 40% and landing 20%.

These values can be modified depending on local factors. Information about the values in force will be provided, at the latest, at the general briefing.

#### Technical

Maneuvers are judged according to:
* criteria
* difficulty coefficients
* penalties

The final mark for technical expression is the average mark multiplied by a difficulty coefficient, which is calculated as the average of the 3 highest coefficient maneuvers flown during the run.

#### Choreography

Maneuvers are judged according to:
* Placement and drift, number of manoeuvres, management of altitude (3/10)
* Flow, rhythm, connections, originality, diversity, style, overall artistic impact of the run (7/10)

#### Landing

Maneuvers are judged according to:
* Approach and precision of the raft landing (3/10)
* Ground Spiral (5/10)
* Other tricks: hand and foot touch, Jesus walk, spin, raft flip (2/10)

### Synchro

Each judge gives 4 marks between 1 and 10: technical expression during the program, general choreography, landing, synchronization of maneuvers.

Marks are from 1 to 10, with half points. The Judges' mark is composed of the average of the Judges' scores for technical expression + average score for choreography + average score for landing + average score for synchronization.

The final mark is generated by the scoring software such that the technical expression component represents 25% of the final mark, choreography 25%, landing 25% and synchronization 25%.

These values can be modified depending on local factors. Information about the values in force will be provided, at the latest, at the general briefing.

#### Technical

Maneuvers are judged according to:
* criteria
* difficulty coefficients
* penalties

The final mark for technical expression is the average mark multiplied by a difficulty coefficient, which is calculated as the average of the 3 highest coefficient maneuvers flown during the run.

#### Choreography

Judging criteria:
* Placement and drift, number of manoeuvres, management of altitude (3/10)
* Flow, rhythm, connections, originality, diversity, style, overall artistic impact of the run (7/10)

#### Landing

Judging criteria:
* Approach and precision of the raft landing (3/10)
* Ground Spiral (3/10), Mirror Ground Spiral (4/10) or Synchro Ground Spiral (5/10)
* Other tricks: hand and foot touch, Jesus walk, spin (2/10)

#### Synchronisation 

Judging criteria is based on the average of the synchronization achieved during all single maneuvers (5/10) and an appreciation of the general synchronization (5/10).

## Technical

Each maneuver has a fixed difficulty coefficient in accordance with the table found in [Solo and Synchro](##) and [Synchro only](##).

### High coefficient manoeuvres

During each run, a maximum of 2 maneuvers with coefficient of 1.95 or more can be flown. If more than 2 such maneuvers are flown, the extra maneuvers will not be scored and their coefficients not taken into account for the determination of the average coefficient.

### Points Deductions

The following provide some reference criteria. The judges shall appreciate the context in which the problem occurs, its importance, and the way in which the pilot manages the situation.

#### Collapses/Tucks:
* 0 to 25%: 0 to 2.5 points reduction for the manoeuvre
* 25 to 50%: 2.5 to 5 points reduction for the manoeuvre
* 50 to 100%: 5 to 8 points reduction for the manoeuvre

#### Unplanned Change of Direction:
* <90°: 0 to 2.5 points reduction for the manoeuvre
* 90° to 180°: 2.5 to 5 points reduction for the manoeuvre
* \>180°: 5 to 8 points reduction for the manoeuvre

#### Cravat:
Fast recovery and full control are required.
* <10% and recovery in less than 3s: 2.5 points reduction for the  manoeuvre
* \>50% and recovery in more than 3s: 2.5 to 8 points reduction for the manoeuvre

#### Unplanned Twist
* <1 turn: 2.5 to 5 points reduction for the manoeuvre
* 1 turn or more: 5 to 8 points reduction for the manoeuvre

### Synchro

Each maneuver has a fixed difficulty coefficient in accordance with the listing found in [Synchro only](##).

All maneuvers allowed to be flown twisted, reversed and flipped in Solo can be performed twisted, reversed and flipped in Synchro.

They will be rewarded by the same choreography bonus points according to the same criteria.

Point deductions for collapses, tucks, cravats and unplanned twists or changes of direction, as noted for Solo, will also be applied to Synchro scoring.

## Choreography

Choreography is scored for the entire run, including the landing.

### Repetition

#### Repetition during the same competition.

Each maneuver may only be performed once during the same competition without deductions to the choreographic score, unless performed in the opposite direction i.e. left/right. When the same maneuver is flown more than once in the same direction during the same competition, every repetition will be accorded a deduction of the choreography mark. This rule also applies when the same maneuver is flown once untwisted or unreversed and then twisted or reversed. Under certain conditions, the Chief Judge and/or Meet Director may choose to ignore this rule, in which case, information shall be provided at the briefing preceding that run.

In Synchro, when the two pilots perform the same maneuver simultaneously in opposite directions, (mirror) the maneuver is considered as neutral, without a specific direction of rotation.

For Rodeo SAT and Rodeo Helicopter, the rotation of the SAT or the helicopter will determine the direction of the maneuver.

#### Repetition during the same run.

* Only one of the following manoeuvres can be performed during the  same run: SuperStall to Infinite Tumbling, Flat Stall to Infinite Tumbling, Tail Slide / Deep Stall to Infinite Tumbling.
* Only 2 tumbling, infinity and rhythmic related manoeuvres can be performed during the same run.

If this limitation is not respected, only the allowed maneuvers (in the order of execution) will be scored.

#### Deductions

The penalty for repetition is typically a reduction of 13% of the choreography mark for each repetition, but may be specified differently (especially for events where the completion of more than 4 runs is expected) and will be stated at the general briefing.

#### Exceptions to Repetition

The following maneuvers can be performed more than once without penalty within the same competition: Tail Slide, Wingover, Full Stall, Dynamic Full Stall, Pitch Pendulum, Bro Hook. However, each maneuver can be performed only once twisted or flipped within the same run. If the same maneuver is repeated twisted or flipped within the same run, the extra choreography bonus will not be rewarded.

### Twisted manoeuvres bonus 

During each run, up to 5 maneuvers can be performed twisted. They will be rewarded with "choreography twisted bonus" points in accordance with the listing found in [Solo and Synchro](##) and [Synchro only](##).

Some maneuvers can be rewarded with an additional "choreography twisted exit bonus".

If more than 5 maneuvers are flown twisted, the extra maneuvers will not be scored and their coefficients not taken into account for the determination of the average coefficient. All maneuvers allowed to be flown twisted in Solo can be performed twisted in Synchro.

### Reversed Manoeuvres bonus

During each run, up to 3 maneuvers can be performed reversed. They will be rewarded with "choreography reversed bonus" points in accordance with the listing found in [Solo and Synchro](##) and [Synchro only](##).

If more than 3 maneuvers are flown reversed, the extra maneuvers will not be scored and their coefficients not taken into account for the determination of the average coefficient. All maneuvers allowed to be flown reversed in Solo can be performed reversed in Synchro.

### Flipped Manoeuvres bonus

During each run, up to 2 maneuvers can be performed flipped. They will be rewarded with "choreography flipped bonus" or "choreography double flipped bonus" points in accordance with the listing found in [Solo and Synchro](##) and [Synchro only](##). If more than 2 maneuvers are flown flipped, the extra maneuvers will not be scored and their coefficients not taken into account for the determination of the average coefficient. All maneuvers allowed to be flown flipped in Solo can be performed flipped in Synchro.

If a flipped maneuver is to be performed, it must be announced before the run by personally informing one of the judges, or, at the latest before take-off, by requesting the start marshal or drop master to inform the judges.

Flip cannot be performed during the last 2 maneuvers of the run.

### Twisted exit bonus

The twisted exit bonus is awarded when a twisted maneuver is exit twisted and is followed by another twisted maneuver, without untwisting in between. Exception: the last maneuver of the run. In this case the trick has to be clearly exited twisted and controlled.

### Wing touch bonus

The wing touch bonus is awarded when, during the execution of some synchro manoeuvres, the two wings smoothly touch each other. They will be rewarded with "choreography wing touch bonus" points in accordance with the listing found in [Synchro only](##).

## Landing

Landing on the raft is an integral part of the competition.

The raft must have a surface area of 25 square meters minimum on a lake, and larger when on sea water in order to protect, as much as possible, the glider from the salt.

### Landing On Ground

The Meet Director, in agreement with the Safety Director and Chief Judge and after consultation with the Safety Committee can decide to eliminate the landing on the raft in the case of rough seas, very cold water (less than 10°C) or unsafe landing conditions.

In that case, a ground landing can be scored under the following conditions:

* The pilots should be able to safely approach the landing area without over flying the public.
* A target landing gives the "raft points". The target must be 1m diameter minimum.
* Ground spirals, raft flip, and all the synchro landing tricks are not allowed. All other landing tricks are allowed but must be safely performed, taking into consideration the nature of the landing area, the obstacle and people on ground.

### No Landing Scoring

If the conditions are not safe, the Meet Director, in agreement with the Safety Director and Chief Judge and after consultation with the Safety Committee can decide that landing will not be scored (0 for all pilots/pairs).

## Synchronisation

Synchronization is scored for the entire run, including the landing.

## Manoeuvre and Score Validation

Just after completing the run, pilots/pairs are requested to validate their maneuvers by checking in at the judges' tent.

When a run is completed the list of maneuvers and the provisional results are published on the official information board. The pilots/pairs have 1 hour time to check the scores and report to the judges to point out possible errors.

## Obvious Error

The Meet Director may hold a conference with the judges to adjust a score in case of an obvious error.
